.TH "bcfg2-info" 8
.SH NAME
bcfg2-info \- Creates a local version of the bcfg2 server core for
state observation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcfg2-info
.I [\-C <config file>] [\-E <encoding>] [\-Q <repository path>] [\-h] [\-p] [\-x <password>]
.I <mode>
.I <mode args>
.I <mode options>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bcfg2-info
Instantiate an instance of the Bcfg2 core for data examination and
debugging purposes.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B "\-C <config file>"
.RS
Specify the location of the configuration file (if it is not in
/etc/bcfg2.conf).
.RE
.B "\-E <encoding>"
.RS
Specify the encoding of config files.
.RE
.B "\-Q <repository path>
.RS
Specify the server repository path.
.RE
.B "\-d"
.RS
Run in debug mode.
.RE
.B "\-h"
.RS
Give a bit of help about the command line arguments and
options. After this bcfg2-info exits.
.RE
.B "\-p"
.RS
Specify a profile.
.RE
.B "\-x <password>"
.RS
Set the communication password.
.RE
.SH MODES
.PP
.B build <hostname> <filename>
.RS
Build config for hostname, writing to filename.
.RE
.B builddir <hostname> <dirname>
.RS
Build config for hostname, writing separate files to dirname.
.RE
.B buildall <directory>
.RS
Build configs for all clients in directory.
.RE
.B buildbundle <filename> <hostname>
.RS
Build bundle for hostname (not written to disk). If filename is a bundle
template, it is rendered.
.RE
.B buildfile <filename> <hostname>
.RS
Build config file for hostname (not written to disk).
.RE
.B bundles
.RS
Print out group/bundle information.
.RE
.B clients
.RS
Print out client/profile information.
.RE
.B config
.RS
Print out the configuration of the Bcfg2 server.
.RE
.B debug
.RS
Shell out to native python interpreter.
.RE
.B event_debug
.RS
Display filesystem events as they are processed.
.RE
.B groups
.RS
List groups
.RE
.B help
.RS
Print the list of available commands.
.RE
.B mappings <type*> <name*>
.RS
Print generator mappings for optional type and name.
.RE
.B profile <command> <args>
.RS
Profile a single bcfg2-info command.
.RE
.B quit
.RS
Exit bcfg2-info command line.
.RE
.B showentries <hostname> <type>
.RS
Show abstract configuration entries for a given host.
.RE
.B showclient <client1> <client2>
.RS
Show metadata for given hosts.
.RE
.B update
.RS
Process pending file events.
.RE
.B version
.RS
Print version of this tool.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcfg2(1),
.BR bcfg2-server(8)
.SH "BUGS"
None currently known
