.TH bcfg2.conf 5

.SH NAME
bcfg2.conf - configuration parameters for Bcfg2

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
bcfg2.conf includes configuration parameters for the Bcfg2 server and
client.

.SH FILE FORMAT
The file is INI-style and consists of sections and options. A section
begins with the name of the sections in square brackets and continues
until the next section begins.

Options are specified in the form 'name = value'.

The file is line-based each newline-terminated line represents either
a comment, a section name or an option.

Any line beginning with a hash (#) is ignored, as are lines containing
only whitespace.


.SH SERVER OPTIONS
These options are only necessary on the Bcfg2 server. They are
specified in the [server] section of the configuration file.

.TP
.B repository
Specifies the path to the Bcfg2 repository containing all of the
configuration specifications. The repository should be created
using the 'bcfg2-admin init' command.

.TP
.B filemonitor
The file monitor used to watch for changes in the repository.
Values of 'gamin', 'fam', or 'pseudo' are valid.

.TP
.B listen_all
This setting tells the server to listen on all available interfaces. The
default is to only listen on those interfaces specified by the bcfg2
setting in the components section of bcfg2.conf.

.TP
.B plugins
A comma-delimited list of enabled server plugins. Currently available
plugins are:

\(bu
.B Account
The account plugin manages authentication data, including:

 * /etc/passwd
 * /etc/group
 * /etc/security/limits.conf
 * /etc/sudoers
 * /root/.ssh/authorized_keys

\(bu
.B Actions

Action entries are commands that are executed either before bundle
installation, after bundle installation or both. If exit status is
observed, a failing pre-action will cause no modification of the
enclosing bundle to be performed; all entries included in that bundle
will not be modified. Failing actions are reported through Bcfg2's
reporting system, so they can be centrally observed.

\(bu
.B BB
The BB plugin maps users to machines and metadata to machines. 
(experimental)

\(bu
.B Base
A structure plugin that provides the ability to add lists of unrelated
entries into client configuration entry inventories. Base works much
like Bundler in its file format. This structure plugin is good for
the pile of independent configs needed for most actual systems.

\(bu
.B Bundler
Bundler is used to describe groups of inter-dependent configuration
entries, such as the combination of packages, configuration files,
and service activations that comprise typical Unix daemons. Bundles
are used to add groups of configuration entries to the inventory of
client configurations, as opposed to describing particular versions
of those
entries.

\(bu
.B Bzr
The Bzr plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a GNU Bazaar version control backend. Currently, it enables
you to get revision information out of your repository for reporting
purposes.

\(bu
.B Cfg
The Cfg plugin provides a repository to describe configuration file
contents for clients. In its simplest form, the Cfg repository is
just a directory tree modeled off of the directory tree on your client
machines.

\(bu
.B Cvs
The Cvs plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Concurrent version control backend. Currently, it enables you
to get revision information out of your repository for reporting
purposes. (experimental)

\(bu
.B Darcs
The Darcs plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Darcs version control backend. Currently, it enables you to
get revision information out of your repository for reporting purposes.
(experimental)

\(bu
.B DBStats
Direct to database statistics plugin. (0.9.6 and later)

\(bu
.B Decisions
The Decisions plugin has support for a centralized set of per-entry
installation decisions. This approach is needed when particular
changes are deemed "high risk"; this gives the ability to centrally
specify these changes, but only install them on clients when
administrator supervision is available. (0.9.6 and later)

\(bu
.B Deps
The Deps plugin allows you to make a series of assertions like
"Package X requires Package Y (and optionally also Package Z etc.)

\(bu
.B Editor
The Editor plugin allows you to partially manage configuration for
a file. Its use is not recommended and not well documented.

\(bu
.B Fossil
The Fossil plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Fossil SCM version control backend. Currently, it enables
you to get revision information out of your repository for reporting
purposes.

\(bu
.B Git
The Git plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Git version control backend. Currently, it enables you to
get revision information out of your repository for reporting purposes.

\(bu
.B GroupPatterns
The GroupPatterns plugin is a connector that can assign clients group
membership based on patterns in client hostnames.

\(bu
.B Hg
The Hg plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Mercurial version control backend. Currently, it enables you
to get revision information out of your repository for reporting
purposes. (experimental)

\(bu
.B Hostbase
The Hostbase plugin is an IP management system built on top of Bcfg2.

\(bu
.B Metadata
The Metadata plugin is the primary method of specifying Bcfg2 server
metadata.

\(bu
.B NagiosGen
NagiosGen is a Bcfg2 plugin that dynamically generates Nagios
configuration files based on Bcfg2 data.

\(bu
.B Ohai
The Ohai plugin is used to detect information about the client
operating system. The data is reported back to the server using
JSON. (experimental)

\(bu
.B POSIXCompat
The POSIXCompat plugin provides a compatibility layer which turns
new-style (1.0) POSIX entries into old-style entries which are
compatible with previous releases.

\(bu
.B Packages
The Packages plugin is an alternative to Pkgmgr for specifying
package entries for clients. Where Pkgmgr explicitly specifies
package entry information, Packages delegates control of package
version information to the underlying package manager, installing
the latest version available from through those channels.

\(bu
.B Pkgmgr
The Pkgmgr plugin resolves the Abstract Configuration Entity
"Package" to a package specification that the client can use to
detect, verify and install the specified package.

\(bu
.B Probes
The Probes plugin gives you the ability to gather information from a
client machine before you generate its configuration. This information
can be used with the various templating systems to generate
configuration based on the results.

\(bu
.B Properties
The Properties plugin is a connector plugin that adds information
from properties files into client metadata instances. (1.0 and later)

\(bu
.B Rules
The Rules plugin resolves Abstract Configuration Entities to literal
configuration entries suitable for the client drivers to consume.

\(bu
.B SGenshi (Deprecated)
See Bundler.

\(bu
.B Snapshots
The Snapshots plugin stores various aspects of a client's state when
the client checks in to the server.

\(bu
.B SSHbase
The SSHbase generator plugin manages ssh host keys (both v1 and v2)
for hosts. It also manages the ssh_known_hosts file. It can integrate
host keys from other management domains and similarly export its keys.

\(bu
.B Svn
The Svn plugin allows you to track changes to your Bcfg2 repository
using a Subversion backend. Currently, it enables you to get revision
information out of your repository for reporting purposes.

\(bu
.B TCheetah
The TCheetah plugin allows you to use the cheetah templating system
to create files. It also allows you to include the results of probes
executed on the client in the created files.

\(bu
.B TGenshi
The TGenshi plugin allows you to use the Genshi templating system to
create files. It also allows you to include the results of probes
executed on the client in the created files.

\(bu
.B Trigger
Trigger is a plugin that calls external scripts when clients are
configured.

.TP
.B prefix
Specifies a prefix if the Bcfg2 installation isn't placed in the
default location (eg. /usr/local).

.SH MDATA OPTIONS
These options affect the default metadata settings for Paths with
type='file'.

.TP
.B owner
Global owner for Paths (defaults to root)

.TP
.B group
Global group for Paths (defaults to root)

.TP
.B perms
Global permissions for Paths (defaults to 644)

.TP
.B paranoid
Global paranoid settings for Paths (defaults to false)

.TP
.B sensitive
Global sensitive settings for Paths (defaults to false)


.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
These options only affect client functionality, specified in the
[client] section.

.TP
.B decision
Specify the server decision list mode (whitelist or blacklist). (This
setting will be ignored if the client is called with the -f option.)

.TP
.B drivers
Specify tool driver set to use. This option can be used to explicitly
specify the client tool drivers you want to use when the client is run.

.TP
.B paranoid
Run the client in paranoid mode.


.SH STATISTICS OPTIONS
Server-only, specified in the [statistics] section. These options
control the statistics collection functionality of the server.

.TP
.B database_engine
The database engine used by the statistics module. One of either
'postgresql', 'mysql', 'sqlite3', or 'ado_mssql'.

.TP
.B database_name
The name of the database to use for statistics data. If
'database_engine' is set to 'sqlite3' this is a file path to
sqlite file and defaults to $REPOSITORY_DIR/etc/brpt.sqlite

.TP
.B database_user
User for database connections. Not used for sqlite3.

.TP
.B database_password
Password for database connections. Not used for sqlite3.

.TP
.B database_host
Host for database connections. Not used for sqlite3.

.TP
.B database_port
Port for database connections. Not used for sqlite3.

.TP
.B time_zone
Specify a time zone other than that used on the system. (Note that this
will cause the bcfg2 server to log messages in this time zone as well).


.SH COMMUNICATION OPTIONS
Specified in the [communication] section. These options define
settings used for client-server communication.

.TP
.B ca
The path to a file containing the CA certificate. This file is
required on the server, and optional on clients. However, if the
cacert is not present on clients, the server cannot be verified. 

.TP
.B certificate
The path to a file containing a PEM formatted certificate which
signs the key with the ca certificate. This setting is required on
the server in all cases, and required on clients if using client
certificates. 

.TP
.B key
Specifies the path to a file containing the SSL Key. This is required
on the server in all cases, and required on clients if using client
certificates. 

.TP
.B password
Required on both the server and clients. On the server, sets the
password clients need to use to communicate. On a client, sets the
password to use to connect to the server.

.TP
.B protocol
Communication protocol to use. Defaults to xmlrpc/ssl.

.TP
.B retries
A client-only option. Number of times to retry network communication.

.TP
.B serverCommonNames
A client-only option. A colon-separated list of Common Names the client
will accept in the SSL certificate presented by the server.

.TP
.B user
A client-only option. The UUID of the client.

.SH PARANOID OPTIONS
These options allow for finer-grained control of the paranoid mode
on the Bcfg2 client. They are specified in the [paranoid] section
of the configuration file.

.TP
.B path
Custom path for backups created in paranoid mode. The default is in 
/var/cache/bcfg2.

.TP
.B max_copies
Specify a maximum number of copies for the server to keep when running
in paranoid mode. Only the most recent versions of these copies will
be kept.

.SH COMPONENT OPTIONS
Specified in the [components] section.

.TP
.B bcfg2
URL of the server. On the server this specifies which interface and
port the server listens on. On the client, this specifies where the
client will attempt to contact the server.
eg: bcfg2 = https://10.3.1.6:6789

.TP
.B encoding
Text encoding of configuration files. Defaults to UTF-8.

.SH LOGGING OPTIONS
Specified in the [logging] section. These options control the server
logging functionality.

.B path
Server log file path.

.SH SNAPSHOTS OPTIONS
Specified in the [snapshots] section. These options control the server
snapshots functionality.

.B driver
sqlite

.B database
The name of the database to use for statistics data.
eg: $REPOSITORY_DIR/etc/bcfg2.sqlite

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcfg2(1),
.BR bcfg2-server(8)

