.TH "bcfg2-reports" 8
.SH NAME
bcfg2-reports \- Query reporting system for client status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcfg2-reports
.I [-v] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbcfg2-reports\fR allows you to retrieve data from the database about
clients, and the states of their current interactions. It also allows
you to change the expired/unexpired states.
The utility runs as a standalone application. It does, however, use
the models from /src/lib/Server/Reports/reports/models.py.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B "\-a"
.RS
Shows all hosts, including expired hosts.
.RE
.B "\-b NAME"
.RS
Single-host mode \- shows bad entries from the current interaction of
NAME. NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "-c\"
.RS
Shows only clean hosts.
.RE
.B "\-d"
.RS
Shows only dirty hosts.
.RE
.B "\-e NAME"
.RS
Single host mode \- shows extra entries from the current interaction
of NAME. NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "\-h"
.RS
Shows help and usage info about bcfg2-reports.
.RE
.B "\-m NAME"
.RS
Single-host mode \- shows modified entries from the current interaction
of NAME. NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "\-s NAME"
.RS
Single host mode \- shows bad, modified, and extra entries from the
current interaction of NAME. NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "\-x NAME"
.RS
Toggles expired/unexpired state of NAME. NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "\-\-badentry=KIND,NAME"
.RS
Shows only hosts whose current interaction has bad entries in of KIND
kind and NAME name; if a single argument ARG1 is given, then KIND,NAME
pairs will be read from a file of name ARG1. KIND is the type of entry
(Package, Path, Service, etc). NAME is the name of the entry. 
.RE
.B "\-\-extraentry=KIND,NAME"
.RS
Shows only hosts whose current interaction has extra entries in of KIND
kind and NAME name; if a single argument ARG1 is given, then KIND,NAME
pairs will be read from a file of name ARG1. KIND is the type of entry
(Package, Path, Service, etc). NAME is the name of the entry. 
.RE
.B "\-\-fields=ARG1,ARG2,..."
.RS
Only displays the fields ARG1,ARG2,... (name, time, state, total, good,
bad)
.RE
.B "\-\-modifiedentry=KIND,NAME"
.RS
Shows only hosts whose current interaction has modified entries in of
KIND kind and NAME name; if a single argument ARG1 is given, then
KIND,NAME pairs will be read from a file of name ARG1. KIND is the type
of entry (Package, Path, Service, etc). NAME is the name of the entry.
.RE
.B "\-\-sort=ARG1,ARG2,..."
.RS
Sorts output on ARG1,ARG2,... (name, time, state, total, good, bad)
.RE
.B "\-\-stale"
.RS
Shows hosts which haven't run in the last 24 hours
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcfg2(1),
.BR bcfg2-server(8)
.SH "BUGS"
None currently known
