.TH "bcfg2" 1
.SH NAME
bcfg2 \- reconfigure machine based on settings in Bcfg2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcfg2
.I [\-d] [\-v] [\-p] [\-c cache file] [\-e] [\-f config file] [\-I] [\-q] [\-z] [\-b bundle] [\-r removal mode] [\-\-ca\-cert=file] [\-\-ssl\-cns=list] [\-\-ssl\-cert=file] [\-\-ssl\-key=file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR bcfg2
Runs the Bcfg2 configuration process on the current host. This process
consists of first fetching and executing probes, uploading probe
results, fetching the client configuration, checking the current
client state, attempting to install the desired configuration, and
finally uploading statistics about the Bcfg2 execution and client
state.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-C <configfile>"
Specify alternate bcfg2.conf location.

.TP
.BR "\-D <driver1>,<driver2>"
Specify a set of Bcfg2 tool drivers. NOTE: only drivers listed will be
loaded. (IE, if you don't include POSIX, you will be unable to
verify/install ConfigFiles, etc).

.TP
.BR "\-E <encoding>"
Specify the encoding of Cfg files.

.TP
.BR "\-I"
Run bcfg2 in interactive mode. The user will be prompted before each 
change.

.TP
.BR "\-O" 
Omit lock check.

.TP 
.BR "\-P" 
Run bcfg2 in paranoid mode. Diffs will be logged for
configuration files marked as paranoid by the Bcfg2 server.

.TP
.BR "\-R <retry count>"
Specify the number of times that the client will attempt to retry
network communication.

.TP
.BR "\-S https://server:port"
Manually specify the server location (as opposed to using the value in
bcfg2.conf).

.TP
.BR "\-b <bundle1>:<bundle2>"
Run bcfg2 against one or multiple bundles in the configuration.

.TP
.BR "\-c <cachefile>"
Cache a copy of the configuration in cachefile.

.TP
.BR "\-\-ca\-cert=<ca cert>"
Specifiy the path to the SSL CA certificate.

.TP
.BR "\-d" 
Run bcfg2 in debug mode.

.TP 
.BR "\-e" 
When in verbose mode, display extra entry information (temporary until
verbosity rework).

.TP
.BR "\-f <specification path>" 
Configure from a file rather than querying the server.

.TP 
.BR "\-h" 
Print Usage information.

.TP 
.BR "\-k" 
Run in bulletproof mode. This currently only affects behavior in the
debian toolset; it calls apt\-get update and clean and
dpkg \-\-configure \-\-pending.

.TP
.BR "\-l <whitelist|blacklist|none>"
Run the client in the server decision list mode (unless "none" is
specified, which can be done in order to override the decision list mode
specified in bcfg2.conf). This approach is needed when particular
changes are deemed "high risk". It gives the ability to centrally
specify these changes, but only install them on clients when
administrator supervision is available. Because collaborative
configuration is one of the remaining hard issues in configuration
management, these issues typically crop up in environments with several
administrators and much configuration variety. (This setting will be
ignored if the -f option is also specified.)

.TP
.BR "\-n"
Run bcfg2 in dry\-run mode. No changes will be made to the
system. 

.TP
.BR "\-o <LogFile Path>"
Writes a log to the specified path.

.TP
.BR "\-p <profile>" 
Assert a profile for the current client.

.TP
.BR "\-q"
Run bcfg2 in quick mode. Package checksum verification won't be
performed. This mode relaxes the constraints of correctness, and thus
should only be used in safe conditions.
 
.TP
.BR "\-Q"
Run bcfg2 in "bundle quick" mode, where only entries in a bundle are 
verified or installed. This runs much faster than -q, but doesn't provide 
statistics to the server at all. In order for this option to work, the
-b option must also be provided. This option is incompatible with -r. 

.TP
.BR "\-r <mode>" 
Cause bcfg2 to remove extra configuration elements it detects. Mode is
one of all, Services, or Packages. All removes all entries. Likewise,
Services and Packages remove only the extra configuration elements of
the respective type.

.TP
.BR "\-s <service mode>"
Set bcfg2 interaction level for services. Default behavior is to
modify all services affected by reconfiguration. build mode attempts
to stop all services started. disabled suppresses all attempts to
modify services.

.TP
.BR "\-\-ssl\-cert=<ssl cert>"
Specifiy the path to the SSL certificate.

.TP
.BR "\-\-ssl\-cns=<CommonName1:CommonName2 ...>"
List of acceptable SSL server Common Names.

.TP
.BR "\-\-ssl\-key=<ssl key>"
Specifiy the path to the SSL key.

.TP
.BR "\-u <user>" 
Attempt to authenticate as 'user'.

.TP
.BR "\-x <password>" 
Use 'password' for client communication.

.TP
.BR "\-t <timeout>" 
Set the timeout (in seconds) for client communication.  Default is 90
seconds.

.TP
.BR "\-v"
Run bcfg2 in verbose mode.

.TP
.BR "\-z"
Only configure independent entries, ignore bundles.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcfg2-server(8),
.BR bcfg2-info(8)
.SH "BUGS"
