bcfg2-lint.conf(5) -- configuration parameters for bcfg2-lint
=============================================================

## DESCRIPTION

`bcfg2-lint.conf` includes configuration parameters for `bcfg2-lint`.

## FILE FORMAT

The file is INI-style and consists of sections and options. A section
begins with the name of the sections in square brackets and continues
until the next section begins.

Options are specified in the form "name=value".

The file is line-based each newline-terminated line represents either a
comment, a section name or an option.

Any line beginning with a hash (#) is ignored, as are lines containing
only whitespace.

The file consists of one `[lint]` section, up to one `[errors]` section,
and then any number of plugin-specific sections, documented below.
(Note that this makes it quite feasible to combine your
`bcfg2-lint.conf` into your `bcfg2.conf`(5) file, if you so desire).

## GLOBAL OPTIONS

These options apply to `bcfg2-lint` generally, and must be in the
`[lint]` section.

  * `plugins`:
    A comma-delimited list of plugins to run. By default, all plugins
    are run. This can be overridden by listing plugins on the command
    line. See `bcfg2-lint`(8) for a list of the available plugins.

## ERROR HANDLING

Error handling is configured in the `[errors]` section. Each option
should be the name of an error and one of *error*, *warning*, or
*silent*, which tells `bcfg2-lint`(8) how to handle the warning. Error
names and their defaults can be displayed by running `bcfg2-lint`(8)
with the `--list-errors` option.

## PLUGIN OPTIONS

These options apply only to a single plugin. Each option should be in a
section named for its plugin; for instance, options for the InfoXML
plugin would be in a section called `[InfoXML]`.

If a plugin is not listed below, then it has no configuration.

In many cases, the behavior of a plugin can be configured by modifying
how errors from it are handled. See [`ERROR HANDLING`](### ERROR
HANDLING), above.

### Comments

The `Comments` plugin configuration specifies which VCS keywords and
comments are required for which file types. The valid types of file are
*global* (all file types), *bundler* (non-templated bundle files),
*sgenshi* (templated bundle files), *properties* (property files), *cfg*
(non-templated Cfg files), *tgenshi* (templated Cfg files), *infoxml*
(info.xml files), and *probe* (probe files).

The specific types (i.e., types other than "global") all supplement
global; they do not override it. The exception is if you specify an
empty option, e.g.:

  cfg_keywords =

By default, the *$Id$* keyword is checked for and nothing else.

Multiple keywords or comments should be comma-delimited.

· `<type>_keywords`

Ensure that files of the specified type have the given VCS keyword. Do
*not* include the dollar signs. I.e.:

  infoxml_keywords = Revision

*not*:

  infoxml_keywords = $Revision$

`· <type>_comments`

Ensure that files of the specified type have a comment containing the
given string. In XML files, only comments are checked. In plain text
files, all lines are checked since comment characters may vary.

### InfoXML

  * `required_attrs`:
    A comma-delimited list of attributes to require on `<Info>` tags.
    Default is "owner,group,mode".

### MergeFiles

  * `threshold`:
    The threshold at which MergeFiles will suggest merging config files
    and probes. Default is 75% similar.

### Validate

  * `schema`:
    The full path to the XML Schema files. Default is
    `/usr/share/bcfg2/schema`. This can be overridden with the
    *--schema* command-line option

## SEE ALSO

bcfg2-lint(8)
